# Football-Match-Prediction-Using-Data-From-Top-5-European-Leagues
Config files for my GitHub profile.

This project’s primary purpose is to create a model for predicting football matches using a variety of machine learning techniques. But the goal is to create a model that can predict the outcomes of matches in the top 5 European leagues with more accuracy and can be reliable. In this project, we will be talking about what is football, what are the top five leagues in European football, how have the teams been performing in these leagues, how is the current football prediction working, and entities that can benefit by using these kinds of models. The algorithms may also be used to forecast match outcomes as well as other factors like the number of goals scored because they were created using past data from football leagues. The project is made up of various components, including feature engineering, visualizing the football matches’ stats from the top five leagues for past 5 years, model training, and evaluation. The feature engineering module develops new features by using the data that is already accessible, such as match statistics, team standings, and previous match results. The best machine learning algorithm, hyperparameters, and performance metrics—accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score—must be chosen. The final model can predict football game outcomes, which is useful for betting or predicting team performance.

The online resource for machine learning called Kaggle and website such as https://footystats.org/ and https://www.football-data.co.uk/ provides access to football match data. Datasets on different football leagues and competitions, such as the English Premier League, La Liga, Serie A, Bundesliga and Ligue 1, are available in these repositories. Football match data, such as scores, player statistics, and team performance, is widely available online for free. These websites include Football-Lineups.com, ESPN, and BBC Sport. To make sure the data sets collected from various sources are pertinent, accurate, and consistent, they must be carefully chosen and pre-processed. Overall, the nature and sources of the dataset(s) would be crucial to the success of a study on utilising machine learning algorithms to forecast football match outcomes.
